Day-8
terraform plan -generate-confit-out=generated_resource.tf // for generating instance information to new file
terraform import aws_instance.example instance_id_here // for copying all the information through terraform command

day-6
terraform workspace select dev

Ansible
ansible-galaxy role init kubernetes // for creating  template for efficent configuration of large project using ansible role command


DockerFile commands

run: This command creates and runs a new Docker container.
add: This command adds files or directories to a Docker image.
copy: This command copies files or directories from a host machine to a Docker image.
cmd: This command specifies the command that will be run when the Docker container starts.
entrypoint: This command specifies the entrypoint for the Docker container. The entrypoint is the command that will be run when the Docker container starts, even if a command is specified with the cmd command.
workdir: This command specifies the working directory for the Docker container. The working directory is the directory that will be used when the Docker container starts.
label: This command adds a label to a Docker image. Labels are key-value pairs that can be used to store metadata about a Docker image.
env: This command sets an environment variable for a Docker container. Environment variables are variables that can be used to configure the behavior of a Docker container.
maintainer: This command specifies the maintainer of a Docker image. The maintainer is the person who is responsible for the Docker image.


ARG is used to define a build-time variable NGINX_VERSION that can be overridden during the build process.
FROM sets the base image as the specified Nginx version.
ADD copies the index.html file from the build context to the /usr/share/nginx/html directory inside the container.
WORKDIR sets the working directory inside the container to /usr/share/nginx/html.
CMD sets the default command for the container to start Nginx and keep it running in the foreground.
EXPOSE specifies that the container will listen on port 80.
MAINTAINER sets the author/maintainer information for the image.
LABEL adds metadata to the image, in this case, a description for the image.
ENV sets the environment variable APP_VERSION with the value 1.0.
